README.md, before:

[![Rails Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-rubocop-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/rubocop/rubocop-rails)

[![Rails Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-community-brightgreen.svg)](https://rails.rubystyle.guide)

##### Prerequisites

The setups steps expect following tools installed on the system.

- Git
- Postgres
- Ruby [3.0.0](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2020/12/25/ruby-3-0-0-released/)
- Rails [7.0.8](https://rubyonrails.org/2023/9/9/Rails-7-0-8-has-been-released/)

##### 1. Check out the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/anthonysherwinchua/rails-booking-system
```

##### 2. Create and setup the database

For localhost, run the following commands via psql

```
ALTER USER "booking-system-user" CREATEDB;

CREATE USER "booking-system-user" WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD '<strong-password>';
CREATE DATABASE "rails-booking-system-development";
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE "rails-booking-system-development" TO "booking-system-user";
CREATE DATABASE "rails-booking-system-test";
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE "rails-booking-system-test" TO "booking-system-user";

ALTER DATABASE "rails-booking-system-development" OWNER TO "booking-system-user";
ALTER DATABASE "rails-booking-system-test" OWNER TO "booking-system-user";

```

note: you can get the <strong-password> in the development's credential via the following command
`EDITOR=cat rails credentials:edit -e development`

For staging/production, after you create the database in Amazon, you need to update the
database configuration in the respective credentials

Run the following commands to setup the database.

```ruby
bundle exec rake db:setup
```

##### 3. Start the Rails server

You can start the rails server using the command given below.

```ruby
bundle exec rails s
```

And now you can visit the site with the URL http://localhost:3000

##### 4. Add ReactJS

Run the following commands to add ReactJS and some of its essential libraries

```
yarn add react react-dom react-router-dom
```

Commit message:

provide a template for the credentials

README.md, after:

[![Rails Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-rubocop-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/rubocop/rubocop-rails)

[![Rails Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-community-brightgreen.svg)](https://rails.rubystyle.guide)

##### Prerequisites

The setups steps expect following tools installed on the system.

- Git
- Postgres
- Ruby [3.0.0](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2020/12/25/ruby-3-0-0-released/)
- Rails [7.0.8](https://rubyonrails.org/2023/9/9/Rails-7-0-8-has-been-released/)

##### 1. Check out the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/anthonysherwinchua/rails-booking-system
```

##### 2. Create and setup the database

For localhost, run the following commands via psql

```
ALTER USER "booking-system-user" CREATEDB;

CREATE USER "booking-system-user" WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD '<strong-password>';
CREATE DATABASE "rails-booking-system-development";
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE "rails-booking-system-development" TO "booking-system-user";
CREATE DATABASE "rails-booking-system-test";
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE "rails-booking-system-test" TO "booking-system-user";

ALTER DATABASE "rails-booking-system-development" OWNER TO "booking-system-user";
ALTER DATABASE "rails-booking-system-test" OWNER TO "booking-system-user";

```

note: you can get the <strong-password> in the development's credential via the following command
`EDITOR=cat rails credentials:edit -e development`

note #2: you can replace the credentials and update the values with the template provided on config/credentials/development.yml.sample

For staging/production, after you create the database in Amazon, you need to update the
database configuration in the respective credentials

Run the following commands to setup the database.

```ruby
bundle exec rake db:setup
```

##### 3. Start the Rails server

You can start the rails server using the command given below.

```ruby
bundle exec rails s
```

And now you can visit the site with the URL http://localhost:3000

##### 4. Add ReactJS

Run the following commands to add ReactJS and some of its essential libraries

```
yarn add react react-dom react-router-dom
```
